Blog post for restart all containers (#52895)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2025-XX-XX-restart-all-containers.md

---
layout: blog

> title: "Kubernetes v1.35: Restart all containers"

Reviewer: early nit: people might think this is an imperative ("Running Kubernetes v1.35? You'll need to restart all running containers")

## Introducing the `RestartAllContainers` action

To address this, Kubernetes v1.35 adds a new action to the container restart rules: `RestartAllContainers`. When a container exits in a way that matches a rule with this action, the kubelet initiates a fast, **in-place** restart of the Pod.

This in-place restart is highly efficient because it preserves the Pod's most important resources:
- The Pod's UID, IP address and network namespace.
- The Pod's sandbox and any attached devices.
- All volumes, including `emptyDir` and mounted volumes from PVCs.

After terminating all running containers, the Pod's startup sequence is re-executed from the very beginning. This means all **init containers** are run again in order, followed by the sidecar and regular containers, ensuring a completely fresh start in a known-good environment. With the exception of ephemeral containers (which are terminated), all other containers—including those that previously succeeded or failed—will be restarted, regardless of their individual restart policies.

## Use cases

### 1. Efficient restarts for ML/Batch jobs

> For ML training jobs, [rescheduling a worker Pod on failure](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2025/07/03/navigating-failures-in-pods-with-devices/#roadmap-for-failure-modes-container-code-failed) is a costly operation that wastes valuable compute resources. On a 1,000-node training cluster, rescheduling overhead can waste [over $100,000 in compute resources monthly](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16zexVooHKPc80F4dVtUjDYK9DOpkVPRNfSv0zRtfFpk/edit?tab=t.0#bookmark=id.qwqcnzf96avw).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For ML training jobs, [rescheduling a worker Pod on failure](/blog/2025/07/03/navigating-failures-in-pods-with-devices/#roadmap-for-failure-modes-container-code-failed) is a costly operation that wastes valuable compute resources. On a 1,000-node training cluster, rescheduling overhead can waste [over $100,000 in compute resources monthly](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16zexVooHKPc80F4dVtUjDYK9DOpkVPRNfSv0zRtfFpk/edit?tab=t.0#bookmark=id.qwqcnzf96avw).
```

> `RestartAllContainers` addresses this by enabling a much faster, hybrid recovery strategy: recreate only the "bad" Pods (e.g., those on unhealthy Nodes) while triggering `RestartAllContainers` for the remaining healthy Pods. Benchmarks show this reduces the recovery overhead [from minutes to a few seconds](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16zexVooHKPc80F4dVtUjDYK9DOpkVPRNfSv0zRtfFpk/edit?tab=t.0#bookmark=id.cwkee8kar0i5).

Author: Applied the suggestions, thanks.

The feature is designed to be easily usable on existing apps. However, if the application didn’t follow some best practices, it may cause some troubles for the application or observability tooling. When enabling the feature, make sure that all containers are reentrant and external tooling expects that Init containers may re-run. Also, when restarting all containers, kubelet will not allow any clean up using preStop hook. So containers must be designed to handle abrupt termination. 

## Observing the restart

To make this process observable, a new Pod condition, `AllContainersRestarting`, is added to the Pod's status. When a restart is triggered, this condition becomes `True` and it reverts to `False` once all containers have terminated and the Pod is ready to start its lifecycle anew. This provides a clear signal to users and other cluster components about the Pod's state.

All containers restarted by this action will have their restart count incremented in the container status.

## Learn more

- Read the official documentation on [Pod Lifecycle](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#restart-all-containers).

> - Read the detailed proposal in the [KEP-5532: Restart All Containers on Container Exits](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-node/5532-restart-all-containers-on-container-exits).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Read the detailed proposal in the [KEP-5532: Restart All Containers on Container Exits](https://kep.k8s.io/5532).
```
